Notes on Agentic AI from the Enablement week (#972)
arangodb/docs-hugo: site/content/agentic-ai-suite/natural-language-to-aql/_index.md

5. Results are returned in your chosen format: natural language explanation, the AQL
   query itself, or raw JSON data.

### Schema-aware, data-private

AQLizer is fully schema-aware: it inspects your collections, indexes, and

> document structure so that generated queries are accurate and efficient. The LLM

Reviewer: As discussed, would be nice to add a blurp how it figures out the document structure because there is no schema (custom sampling?)

Reviewer 2: @nicos-arango please don't forget to add this, other than that the PR should be good to go!

> document structure so that generated queries are accurate and efficient. The LLM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AQLizer is schema-aware: it inspects your graphs, collections, and indexes,
and also samples a small number of documents to understand the document
structure. It rechecks the schema after 15 minutes. This lets the AQLizer
generate queries that are accurate and efficient. The LLM
```
